The Joe Rogan.
Experience. It's the same thing with Facebook and Zuckerberg and his like,
you know, his continued position of like, well, you've got a balanced thing.
It's like, it all,
it just comes off like the reaction to Kaepernick or Facebook's reluctance to do
anything. Or even like Facebook's reluctance.
To do anything about what.
Well, Zuckerberg, you know, is basically saying like, we're not,
we're not here to edit anything. And I'm not saying that I'm for editing,
but it's okay. If you have a, a, if you have,
if you're in charge of a company, the you're the face of the company.
So what you do is a reflection of what you believe in, right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so in his particular case, he must believe this,
but he just believes that to say nothing, to do nothing about, uh,
the things that are posted, which is which, you know,
you can argue in court all day,
does it incite violence or is it just someone being, um,
free expressing their free speech or, you know, whatever the deal is.
But if someone's consistently hitting a certain angle and
response is pretty palpable, um, and fairly measurable,
and yet you choose to just allow it to be what it is because, you know,
people figure it out, they'll educate themselves, that type of a thing.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you have to take some kind of a position from a
humanitarian point of view. And I think that I'm very disappointed in,
in social media, in general, because general,
because they're trying to protect their bottom line and that's really what it
comes off as it doesn't come off as like, well, I wanna protect freerech if it,
it, to me comes across more, like we need to protect our, our bottom line.
Because if we, if we start editing something,
then it's gonna be a huge landslide. Everyone's gonna be like, oh,
we'll screw this,
screw these guys for a stifling free speech and all of that stuff.
When in actuality, it's it only,
the only reason why you would make decisions like that are really just to
protect a bottom line. I don't really understand any other because you, I mean,
even apple takes a position, you know, like Tim cook will issue a letter,
that's then able to be circulated and, and you can read the letter and like, oh,
okay. That's interesting. They're they, they don't believe in this.
And they don't believe in this as a company.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> Zuckerberg is more like, well, I believe in,
in whatever the greater bland generalization is for
my operating system.
Existing. Well, first of all,
if we want to talk difference between apple and Facebook,
these differences are gigantic. Apple is a technology company. Yeah.
They are not a social media platform.
The difference between the responsibility of a technology company and the
responsibility of a social media platform is enormous. It's enormous.
The consequences are enormous.
Apple makes phones and computers and they have an app store. And, you know,
they, they, they take down bad apps and, you know,
things that they find that are spying on people and the like,
but they don't really have the same dilemmas that someone like Facebook has.
When you talk about the importance of free speech,
when as soon as you decide, okay, this person can't talk,
but this person can,
what you are essentially saying is my viewpoint is better
than the viewpoint of the person that I disagree with. Now,
if you have very specific things like you can't docs people,
you can't threaten people bull,
you can't say anything racist or sexist or homophobic,
or once you establish those parameters, you know,
if you decide that this is how you're gonna operate, if,
if this is your company,
there's a real good argument that you should be allowed to
do that because it's your company <affirmative>. Mm. But then when it gets,
when the company gets big enough where it's like Facebook or Twitter,
then you get a real argument, like, wow,
the best argument for bad speech,
the best antidote is more speech. It's better speech.
So if someone says something that's wrong,
there's a real education value in being,
being able to correct that and having other people correct it,
like just eliminating it. Yeah. In some ways, strengthens the, resolve,
the people that hold that marginalized idea,
whether it's racism or sexism or whatever, when you just eliminate it,
then they go off and it tends to strengthen their, their resolve. It tends.
Sure. Know what I mean? Sure.
And then particularly when it comes to things like right.
Wing issues or left- wing issues, if you're,
if you're running a there's no right- wing social media site that's as popular
as the left- wing ones. But if there was,
and they just decided we're not gonna tolerate any trans stuff, we're not gonna,
if you started talking about how a, a man who has the sex changes, now, woman,
we're gonna tell you, go yourself. That's not real. We we're,
we're not gonna tolerate abortion. You wanna talk about abortion rights,
you're killing babies, get the off our platform.
Like that's the kind of that right wing zealots would do to people that hold
left wing ideology. Mm-hmm <affirmative> but tr the,
conversely you do see that from people who are left- wing zealots,
who are angry about people who have right- wing ideas and maybe even not.
So right- wing like Megan. So I I'm sorry if you've heard this before,
I use thishmm <affirmative> example all the time. If you're listening,
Megan Murphy, who is a, what you would call a trans exclusion,
exclusionary, radical feminist, they call her a turf.
And what that means is she's a,
a person that's a feminist that doesn't believe that you can just change your
sex. And then you can have these arguments and deal with women's issues.
Like a trans person,
she believes is different than a woman mm-hmm <affirmative> and, and a feminist.
And there was some sort of a debate she was having online where sh with
someone on Twitter and she said, but a man is never a woman.
And so they told her she has to take that down. And so she takes it on,
on what? On, on Twitter. Okay.
So she takes it down and then she makes a screenshot of it and posts that Uh-huh
<laugh>. And so they' banner for life,
for life for saying a man is never a woman. Look, it's one thing.
If you're on someone and you're, you're mad at someone,
and you're saying a man is never a woman, but if you wanna just talk biology,
a man is never a woman. So if you're a person who is a,
a left wing, progressive zealot,
and you don't want anybody that's not adhering or complying at all to the,
to the ideology of progressive people, you ban someone like that.
And so I don't that. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yeah.
This is the problem with censorship. It's like, where do you draw the line?
My opinion in that case is you let that woman say that and you let people
correct her and you let people correct the people to correct her. And you, you,
uh, you get a lively debate where people get to discuss whether or not
they are different things. And I,
I think there's a real valid intellectual argument in that there's a,
a valid social argument in that. Yeah. See,
but this is the problem with censorship. Well, and.
You know, and my thing is like, I'm not exactly, I'm not saying,
I'm not saying to censor. I'm just saying when in,
on the conversation, so how do you do that though? Well,
you take responsibility for it. It's.
Like it's, but what, what specifically are we.
Talking about? Well, I'm just saying like, uh, for instance,
if I look at my comments, uh, so say I post something on Twitter and, um,
there's all these comments or whatever. Like,
like a lot of my friends who have Twitter accounts, they may, uh,
they may read the, the comment and be like, oh, that guy's an or whatever,
and never say anything. And there's just like all of these, you know,
comments that are some of just troll people just trying to get reactions and
stuff like that, all that, all of that. I like to personally engage all of that.
And I like to come at them with a conversation.
And the thing that ends up happening with something like Facebook is because
it's, I, I, I'm just a, I guess I'm biased because I don't think,
I don't think very much of Zuckerberg at all. And he's, uh,
just kind of a, a little bit of a thief or a lot, a bit of a thief.
He's a thief and he's not, he's not an innovator in any way,
he's running a company.
But, uh, well, when, when you say a thief.
Well, cuz he stole the ideas. Uh, right. You know,
I have some free people that were, um,
going to school with him around that time period.
And he just basically stole the initial code for, uh, Facebook,
which was generated by a few different people. Um,
and just kind of made off with it. And he just like, you know, it's like,
it's like how all many companies are formed. It's like someone had an idea.
There's no way for them to protect the idea.
Someone capitalized on the idea of first, how.
Come those people can't Sue him?
I don't know. I don't know. I think it's because it's arbitrary.
I think it's like where that came from,
where the original code came from and so forth is arbitrary. So, uh,
they must be furious. I, I know that they're furious, you know, and I,
I know that they're furious and I know some other people from startups that also
has he addressed it. No, of course he's not gonna address it. I mean, he may,
may maybe he did. I don't know. I'm not an expert on it.
All I know is that in the beginning there was that. And then in parallel,
as it was growing and as they were making decisions,
I would hear from people that are in his orbit,
that would kind of describe his decision making process processes and so forth.
And I don't get a sense, uh, that he, um, he understands,
uh, his, his responsibb,
his social responsibility or his responsibility to the identity of the company
seems very far removed and,
and his actions kind of dictate that it's like a little bit a fair in a sense
that if, if I have like going back to my comments,
I'm commenting on those things because I'm letting, I'm letting people comment.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, but I'm engaging in a conversation with,
in hopes that we can talk about.
Stuff.
Are you open to anybody being able to com comment back to you and say whatever
they want? Yes, of course. Yeah. But do you know the, the,
what is the explanation that YouTube did for this,
but this is the problem with banning con comments or deleting comments.
It gets that stuff can get co-opted. And there was a,
a situation recently where YouTube was caught deleting comments that were
critical of the Chinese communist party.
And what they said was that it was a software glitch. Oh.
Yeah, yeah, no, that's them protecting their bottom line.
A hundred percent, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's what I would imagine. Totally.
But I saw that and I said, okay, that, but that's what I'm talking about.
Like that kind of. Like once someone comes in and says, Hey,
we would really like it. If you removed those things that talk about, you know,
some of the mean stuff that we'd do yes. Over here. Yeah. And, uh,
we're willing to do business with you, but we want you to put filters up. Yes.
So they said it was a software glitch.
I don't know how that software glitch is naturally works out in target of the
Chinese communist party. Yeah. Yeah.
No, I mean, that's, that's my problem. I mean, I don't have,
I'm not saying get rid of stuff.
I'm just saying be more accountable as the face of a, so what.
Would you like him to do differently? Well, I know you don't like him,
but <laugh> like,
so is it just Facebook or do you have this problem with YouTube?
Do you have this problem with Twitter?
I mean, here's my problem. Whenever you, whenever power is consolidated. Um,
and, uh, there's, there are always going to be problems cuz there's,
cuz there's gonna be all these different ways that people wish that it were,
and it's not working for them in this way and so forth.
My thing is the future is distributed. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
it's a distributed network, distributed social networks.
I have my own app WhatsApp that I created. Oh, what's that? Um,
it's just an app. Um, it's uh, yeah, WhatsApp. It's only on iOS.
We can look for it. Where do you do it? Um, it has, it has exclusive content.
I created a bunch of like interviews with Jack White and um,
and Leslie Feist and uh, Fred armisison are on there in this stupid series.
I call drone conversations that shot entirely on drones.
<laugh> and you can't really hear the conversation cause the drones are too
loud. Really? Yeah. It's really stupid. But um, yeah. Check it out, WhatsApp.
Um, it's out there, but it's got livester dreaming.
I have a store that I sell all my old electronics on, but um, you know,
I have other artists that are interested in making an app,
but apps are notoriously co the cost prohibitive.
I means so expensive over hundred, a hundred thousand to create an app. Right.
So I managed to get my app made for a really, really cheap price,
a brilliant guy named Oliver, Klein, Oliver, Thomas klinein, uh,
designed a single handedly, the whole app. It was amazing.
And his aesthetic is awesome. But my thing was,
if I can create a template and keep getting the price down to make an app,
and they're just using the template that I created for other artists to other
bands, uh,
then we can have a distributed network of apps that can intercommunicate with
one another, without the need of, uh, Facebook, Instagram, any of these, um,
these social media platforms. And that way, when a fan comes to visit my site,
they know it's my. It's not being tracked. No one's getting tracked.
There's no social for my, for my app. There's no, um,
there's no social component to it. People can't comment on anything.
There's just content to observe events to behold and
electronics and headphones to be bought. And that's it. So when you go there,
it feels like a safe space.
And so if there's an interconnected network of distributed apps,
um, which essentially are just kind of interactive websites,
I guess that's what an app is. Ultimately.
Now you've got something that's distributed.
Fans can kind of trust that it's a safe space. It's not owned by Facebook.
It's not owned by any of these corporations. So for me,
it's about power consolidation. It's never going to be what,
what you want it to be.
It'll be convenient it and it'll be ever present like Google for whatever
reason, Google, I have a better opinion of than Facebook. Um,
and mainly I will say also the other big factor of Facebook to me is the
aesthetics are piece of. It's a, it's a confusing, terribly designed piece of.
I.